---
layout: post
published: false
---

**PERFORMING HOT GIRL UNCOMFORTABILITY:**
I've been trying to understand why making this kind of content makes me so uncomfortable and why I would never do it on my own account. I'm beginning to realize that I have long worked to distance myself from being perceived as the "type of girl" to overtly seek out validation online. I see the way that people categorize this kind of internet persona. Many assume that she's ditzy, desperate, and self-obsessed.

**ON BLACK CREATORS AND FLOW OF CONTENT:**
This flow of content is not unusual. Often, I see dance creators who are people of color making SICK choreo, but the choreo gets the MOST attention once a bigger account, usually a white creator, performs the dance. We saw this with the creator of the viral Renegade dance, Jalaiah Harmon. In [Taylor Lorenz's New York Times profile covering Jalaiah's story](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/13/style/the-original-renegade.html), she comments: "I think I could have gotten money for it, promos for it, I could have gotten famous off it, get noticed ... I don’t think any of that stuff has happened for me because no one knows I made the dance."

A [Teen Vogue article featuring Jalaiah](https://www.teenvogue.com/story/jalaiah-harmon-renegade-creator-viral-dance) similarly points out that this is "all too familiar: Black creatives make culturally relevant content that is co-opted and appropriated by white consumers without recognition."

I think of this every time a new dance becomes popularized. Yes, it's cool that the "dc" thing is a trend (something I see Jade adopting more religiously down the line), but it's frustrating that TikTok has no formalized method on the platform of crediting trend originators...

**ON BEING CANDID AND CASUAL**
TikTok as a platform especially lends itself to content that feels casual and candid, like a peek into someone's true life/feelings as they hang out alone in their bedroom, reflecting on and reflecting out into the world.

**NOT ALL POSTS**
This feels like a good time to note, I'm not going to be necessarily writing up EVERY single post from now on. Often some posts are repeating a certain theme/topic for exploration, and I don't think anyone seeing this would get anything new out of me posting about it twice. 

