---
layout: post
published: false
archived: true
headline: NY POST ATTEMPT ONE (FAIL KIND OF)
tags: [original audio]
tiktokLink: N/A
youtubeID: uOhSTxiHDCA
references:
  - https://www.tiktok.com/@littleforrestfairy/video/6950673665050692869
  - https://www.tiktok.com/@itzlaurenwhite/video/6937776483607792901
  - https://www.tiktok.com/@drewullman/video/6887374882951220485
filters:
  - Beauty Filter
  - Sunny (35)
numFollowers: 788
numLikes: 7294
drafts: 
  - id: wxHZRTO-apY
    caption: I looked worse.
  - id: B-bvZy0bAT0
    caption: Can not with my voice omg.
  - id: 7Yxqv68POiM
    caption: The audio is way too chaotic.
  - id: ELOZkh6Zm34
    caption: Too long.
  - id: Q2YNEW-lzDI
    caption: Decent but didn't like as much as final posted version.
---

Okay, so in a completely chance sequence of events I ended up on the cover of the NY Post ([see this Reddit thread](https://old.reddit.com/r/newyorkcity/comments/mw8i7c/love_todays_ny_post_cover/#bottom-comments)) after getting my vaccine at Medgar Evers College in Brooklyn. Here is what happened. My friend was taking my photo on her phone outside the facility when some people from the Post walked up and asked if they could take my photo as well to help encourage New Yorkers to get vaccinated. I was extremelyyyyy hesitant, but eventually said sure because I do believe people should be getting #vaxxed. So, I let them take my photo, assuming that they were doing a high volume series on many New Yorkers getting vaccinated. 

But! I wake up the next day sore and achey to a text from my second cousin alerting me that not only is my face on the COVER of the New York Post, but also that cover is all over twitter given its general inconsistency with the Post's usual messaging. As the day went on, people were crawling out of the WOODWORKS texting me that they'd seen my face on the cover. It was hilarious and alarming all at once.

Eventually, after the novelty wore off, I was like, okay I would be remiss to not capitalize on this situation and do something funny on Jade's profile about it. So, I decided to film one of those videos I've seen other girls make where they use the green screen effect and put themselves in front of a photo of a celebrity people say that they look like and ask the TikTok audience whether or not they think they look like them.

Before I posted this I was like... it's so obvious we are the same person, but we'll see, but LOTS OF PEOPLE SAID we didn't look alike?! My favorite comment of all was from @mike8838 who said: "There are some similarities, but not really. The girl on the cover of the NY Post has these awful glasses anyway." MY GLASSES I can not with that comment I am laughing as I type this. I responded as Jade saying, "lol I know I would never." 

Okay, I'm going to stop there because I ended up moving this post to private after posting a [different post]({% post_url /tiktok/2021-04-30-post %}) a few days later. Will pick up the story there.  