---
layout: post
published: true
archived: false
headline: "#mood #vibin #vibez #aesthetic" 
tags: [highlight]
tiktokLink: https://www.tiktok.com/@jadeontheinternet/video/6966955318437776645
youtubeID: LkwClAJPiZA
references:
  - https://www.tiktok.com/@wholehanna/video/6961238656858262789
  - https://www.tiktok.com/@karenmnguyen/video/6966651446607547653
  - https://www.tiktok.com/@kamalugoo/video/6958568597442612486
  - https://www.tiktok.com/@macktruex/video/6959197770657844486
filters:
  - Sunny (35)
numFollowers: 1476
numLikes: 18.5K
---

In his piece (that I was very excited to see published) [*TikTok and the Vibes Revival*](https://www.newyorker.com/culture/cultural-comment/tiktok-and-the-vibes-revival), Kyle Chayka defines "vibe" in the social media era as "a moment of audiovisual eloquence." The purpose of a #vibes video on TikTok is to present a feeling that can be captured, packaged, and presented through a combination of a series of curated video clips and a carefully chosen sound. 

I've seen videos in this style attempt to convey the energy of a night out, a quiet morning in a cabin, a picnic on the beach, a day at home painting... enviable situations and lifestyles are prime material. You don't usually see a #vibes video of someone scrolling TikTok while having just woken up at 7am or meal prepping for the week or helping a friend move apartments. These are all definitely #vibes I have experienced and I could describe to you and you might be like oh yeah I feel that, but they can't be captured well in the form that TikTok demands (twitter though? maybe...).

I knew this vacation I just went on would give me LOTS of material to work with, so I was excited to turn it all into Jade's first #vibe video. I filmed lots of small moments that I thought both looked ~ aesthetic ~ and seemed to convey what a dreamy time I was having on this trip. 

But! Here's the thing that Chayka never mentions: The act of attempting to produce #vibes on screen (I'm not kidding while writing this I can not seem to type that word without putting a hashtag in front of it, so I'm going to apologize now and keep doing it) completely obliterates your ability to enjoy the #vibes off screen. Chayka writes:

> The vibes are all around us, for the taking. You don’t have to be a poet or philosopher, don’t even have to post anything online. All you have to do is notice.

Sounds like Chayka has never tried to make a #vibes video in his life, which is fine for him, arguably net good for him, but if he's going to talk about consuming them on screen, I think it's important to also consider the process of producing them too. It was nearly impossible for me to just "notice" the vacation #vibes, because I immediately translated every view, every moment I experienced into my phone's vertical aspect ratio and tried to imagine how it might fit nicely into my planned video montage. 

I'm just going to try to write what it is like inside my head dynamically designing a shot list for my #vibes video: 

> *I'm on a boat, this situation will obviously yield great content, I should take a video of us sailing out off of the beach, I should get a shot of the sunrise, oh that shot was good, but I think it would be better if a little bit of the boat was in the shot, I'm going to take another one, I'm going to eat some pineapple, how picturesque! I'm eating pineapple on a boat! I should take a video of this. Wait, but how can I hold my phone while eating the pineapple. I'll have to hold the fork in my left hand. Wait, should I be IN the shot of me eating pineapple? Who am I going to ask to take a clip of me eating pineapple though, that's obviously an embarrassing ask, I'll just do it myself. Oh! A sea turtle in the water, I should get that too, wait too late, I missed it.*

I seriously started laughing out loud writing that because I sound... insane... but that's the thing most of the people who are covering TikTok and social media culture have never realllyyyyyy tried to do the things these influencers do themselves, so I often feel there are these gaping holes in their coverage that fail to emphasize with the challenges the people producing content (not just influencers! I mean *anyone* producing content) face in the process. The [recent piece in *Harper's*](https://harpers.org/archive/2021/06/tiktok-house-collab-house-the-anxiety-of-influencers/) does a decent job, but still manages to really patronize these kids in a way that feels cruel. 

ANYWAY, all I'm trying to say here is that the #vibes are not for the "taking" if you are doing the *making* you feel.

I also think Chayka misses the mark when he asserted instead that "there is a self-effacement that takes place in embracing this new language, a sense that you are not “the main character” of a situation, as another TikTok meme might describe it, but a replaceable observer." The whole point of these trends is asserting that you are the person living this life that looks #aesthetic and enviable. And that's totally main character and noooot self-effacement energy. 

I like instead this description of "vibes" from Rob Horning from a dispatch of his newsletter titled *atmospheres* (where he mentions the Chayka piece and is kind of riffing on it):

> That is to say, content that conveys a vibe presents a consumable moment that "feels right" on terms it simultaneously establishes, its genre or aesthetic or the -core it evokes ... It offers a moment of vicarious identification not with a particular person so much as with an entire situation, a mise-en-scène — as when a clip or a post is hashtagged #mood.

What I like about this is that it points out the importance of that vicarious feeling. That while watching it, the viewer feels as if they can aspire to live the same "main character" lifestyle they're seeing someone else living (even if the focus isn't on the person themselves). 

But in this particular newsletter, Horning also commented:

> When we experience a vibe, it comes with an awareness that we are part of a feeling that is larger than us, that is circulating around us rather than coming from inside us, taking us outside ourselves while simultaneously reminding us that we are nonetheless a discrete self... A vibe makes us part of a collective subject that conducts the affect; naming the vibe extricates us from that and repositions us as a pseudo-sovereign consumer.

I actually disagree with this. (Actually, I wrote in my notes "OKAY... Rob, love ur writing usually, but it's so HEADY. I think what you forget about is the FEELING part of feeling" but that seems a bit aggressive.) This statement here is implying that the process of ~ consuming a vibe ~ involves a high level of external, collective awareness, but in my experience what makes these vibey videos so enticing is how they make you feel things in your body. Watching gorgeous videos perfectly sync to an appropriate song gives me the same feeling I get when I am performing choreography that's musicality feels just right. It's an internal, almost subliminal energy that propels me and others to think/comment "life goals." It's subliminal in the way great advertising is subliminal because it makes you feel something that you almost can't think about too hard or it'll lose its luster because you'll realize the whole thing was made by someone who wasn't actually living this moment at all. Instead, they were stealing it. They were taking it from themselves, just for you. 