---
published: true
---

Hi!

If you’re reading this, you’re probably looking for an answer to the question posed by this website’s URL. Who is Jade on the Internet? Or maybe you read it more as, who is Jade when she’s on the Internet? Or, maybe you came from TikTok and are more like, what the hell is this who is [@jadeontheinternet](https://www.tiktok.com/@jadeontheinternet)?

I can’t promise that this letter (or its surrounding website) will serve as a holistic answer to any of those questions. This project is really about asking that question again and again for a long time. But, I do want to reveal some details on this production up front...

Jade on the Internet is a project about the cultivation, presentation, and commodification of feminine identity online, specifically on TikTok. Jade is a persona created, performed, and maintained by me. She operates based on inferred reward functions for feminine identity in digital space. The media (videos, captions, comments, etc.) she creates, curates, and shares make up her composite digital portrait. Unlike other “real” people, Jade solely materializes on screen.

Lynn Hershman Leeson’s description of her 1973 - 1978 [performance as Roberta Breitmore](https://www.artpractical.com/feature/looking_for_roberta_breitmore/) resonates: “I saw her as a mirror of culture. If you are going to take a profile of the context you live in, then she was a composite of all those stereotypes that people had at that time.”

While Jade is embodied and edited by me, she is distinct from me. This website acts as the “backstage” to her TikTok performance. It is where I, as myself and not Jade, unpack the various costs and effects (mental, physical, financial, etc) of maintaining Jade’s specific version of self on screen every day.

Jade was born onto the Internet on October 31, 2020. This makes her a Scorpio. [Astrology.com](https://www.astrology.com/zodiac-signs/scorpio) says that “The voice of depth, mystery, and intuition comes forward in the Scorpio mantra: I transform.” Jade’s character, by design, finds this explanation fitting.

It’s crucial to note that Jade is a product of privilege (half white, upper middle class, able bodied, thin, cis-gender, presumably straight), although she currently lacks the tools to acknowledge this outwardly. Her privilege plays no small part in her desire to and her belief that she can emulate the kinds of shiny, glossy, mostly-white girls she follows on TikTok (those also seem to be the creators most favored by the platform’s algorithm). This performance, which includes the videos, views, likes, comments, and followers, would be completely different were Jade’s identity anything but her own. While this project explores femme identity online, and I hope many find pieces of themselves within it, its scope is limited by my wish to interrogate an identity not too far from my own.

As Legacy Russell writes in her manifesto [_Glitch Feminism_](https://www.versobooks.com/books/3668-glitch-feminism), “the production of these selves, the digital skins we develop and don online, help us understand who we are with greater nuance.” Although Jade remains a separate character from myself, I expect this project to reveal the deeper and more ugly ways in which we are intertwined. I despise, pity, envy, and admire her all at once and feel compelled to understand why the rest of the world often seems to react in the same way.

Yeah, so I honestly HONESTLY really don’t know what to expect. But this project feels important to me. And I couldn’t stop thinking about it, so I had to bring it to life. If you’re reading this (weird!), thanks for joining for a piece of Jade’s journey. I expect her to evolve, morph, glitch, and grow up over time.

<3,

Editor @jadeontheinternet

P.S. If you have thoughts or feels or just want to say hi, feel free to [drop a comment](https://whoisjadeontheinter.net/dropacomment/). Or, you can also [write me directly](mailto:jadeontheinternet@gmail.com?subject=Re%20Jade%20...).
