---
layout: archive_post
published: true
headline: BUTTERFLY NECKLACE SAGA
tiktokLink: https://www.tiktok.com/@jadeontheinternet/video/6907011990447770886
youtubeID: nb6q2M4C25k
references:
  - https://www.tiktok.com/@amalcolmwilkinson/video/6902449940211961090
  - https://www.tiktok.com/@bentleymescall/video/6903970467414134022
  - https://www.tiktok.com/@sandraalee/video/6902206342010850566
filters:
  - Beauty Mode
  - S8 (25)
thingsUsed:
  - name: 16HR Camo Concealer
    id: 4
  - name: Eyelash curler
    id: 5
  - name: Voluminous Lash Paradise Mascara
    id: 6
  - name: Cloud paint cream blush (Dusk)
    id: 7
  - name: Baked highlighter (Moonlight pearls)
    id: 8
  - name: Infallible Super Slim Liquid Eyeliner
    id: 31
  - name: Lip lacquer (Wild rose)
    id: 10
  - name: Hair elastics (1 pack of 18)
    id: 17
  - name: KNOCKOFF butterfly necklace
    id: 48
  - name: Gold celestial charm multi strand necklace
    id: 49
  - name: Small gold hoop earrings
    id: 50
  - name: Padded up strapless bra
    id: 24
  - name: Knit tube top
    id: 23
thingsUsedToDateLimit: 50
moneyMadeToDate: 0.00
numFollowers: 421
numLikes: 1810
drafts:
  - id: uKtAWE8TiNk
    caption: Re-filmed in another location in my Airbnb because the lighting here isn't great.
---

So, I'm out of town visiting my boyfriend's family, but we're quarantining in an Airbnb and I was all ready to film Jade videos here once we arrived, but THEN I realized that I had forgotten Jade's precious butterfly necklace at home while we were packing in an rush.

There are only so many things I can do in the process of transforming Jade into character: her hair, makeup, and clothes, obviously, but the necklace has so far felt like a crucial signifier of who she is when she shows up on screen.

I ran through the possibilities: search around locally for a similar one, order one online ASAP, have my parents break into our apartment and overnight the original one...

Eventually, I decided that I may as well try to find one around here and decided to call up the one place I thought might have a decent dupe: Claire's.

I called ahead and asked if they had a gold chain pendant butterfly necklace and they said YES, but there was only one left. I said I'd be there ASAP.

Once I got there, I was overwhelmed by the jewelry options. I picked out not only the knockoff butterfly necklace, (which definitely does not look identical, but hopefully is close enough) but also this multi-strand celestial charm necklace that I thought would help hide the necklace discrepancy. And then I was like, if I'm here might as well pick up a pair of little gold hoops. Left my other ones at home with the necklace.

AND THEN, I went to the cashier and she was like, it's buy three get THREE FREE. So, I picked out some barrets, a chain necklace, and a pair of pearl heart earrings for Jade that will debut at a later date. The cashier seemed to be really curious about what I was up to as the mid-20s looking girl who had called ahead to confirm an eight dollar butterfly chain necklace was indeed in stock, but I didn't feel like taking her "so, you haven't been here in a while?" bait to explain. Maybe she'll read this someday though she was really nice.

Anyway, all of this really had me questioning: what maintains the integrity of a performance that I must carry with me wherever I go? I had placed so much MEANING in that necklace I wore every time. I big fear was it would ruin the _conceptual framework_ I was attempting to construct with that necklace as a symbol. I think the idea of "being Jade" without a piece of jewelry or other distinct signifier to separate us, honestly, freaks me out. This project has already seeped into so many corners of my life. I am desperate to maintain some semblance of separation between me offline and Jade online. I guess my panic was not just about forgetting the necklace (nobody would care except me), but it was more about the idea that I could potentially perform Jade without it. The closing gap between us frightens me most.
